well here's a scary thought what if you
eat nothing for a week
whoa pizza pasta fries how could you
possibly give it all up without food
life seems to lose all its color Plus
after a while you sort of you know croak
but what if you decided to quit eating
for an entire week
how would your system respond and is it
as dangerous as it seems we're going to
answer all of these questions today so
make yourself comfortable grab a snack
no not really and let's get started
but before we begin don't forget to
subscribe to our Channel and turn on
notifications now you won't miss any of
our new videos all right here we go
number one your body's response to not
eating let's start off by figuring out
exactly what would happen to your body
if you decided to stop eating the
changes won't be sudden well wait a
minute then why do they call it a fast
beats me you see for the first six hours
of your no food period everything's
going to be just fine at this point your
body begins to break down glycogen which
stores energy in your body glycogen is
the stored form of glucose part of this
energy is used to fuel your brain other
parts are for your muscle tissue in red
blood cells but after six hours this
process shuts down as the glycogen
stores deplete all these internal
processes influence your mood too and
you become angry and hungry true story
right but it doesn't stop there mmm-hmm
after six hours your body enters a new
phase called ketosis to put it simply
your body begins to starve since there's
not enough glucose in your blood
the only way for your body to survive is
to break down fat for energy it sounds
exciting especially if you want to lose
weight but it's way more complicated
than that
sure your fat breaks into fatty acids
but your brain can't use these acids as
a fuel that's why your brain turns to
ketone bodies for energy and this
solution works but only for sometime
ketone bodies obviously can't replace
glucose all this leads to cognitive
functioning impairment huh after three
no food days your brain goes to another
extreme it starts to break down your
body's protein this happens because
proteins release amino acids which can
be converted into the glucose your body
so desperately needs your brain is
finally happy but now it's your body's
turn to suffer it starts to cannibalize
itself by destroying muscle mass women
may experience an additional problem
their menstrual cycle can pause in
addition both genders bone density
diminishes and their libido decreases
hmm definitely not good news right after
one no food week your immune system
becomes extremely weak because it isn't
receiving any vitamins or minerals it
can no longer block the path to your
system and say you shall not pass to all
diseases and viruses and this is when it
becomes quite scary many people can die
from disease during this phase of their
hunger strike their systems become more
and more fragile each day as their
bodies continue to use every energy
source possible until there's nothing
left
such starvation may lead to death after
almost a month or up to 70 days the most
common causes of death in such cases are
cardiac arrhythmia and heart
which happened due to the tissue
degradation in the heart diaphragm
the duration of your life depends on how
much water you drink and the amount of
fat reserves your body has and this is
the end of the road for everybody so the
next time you see that sad news footage
of refugees and other starving people
well as Paul Harvey used to say now you
know the rest of the story anyway who
would want to even go seven days without
food after knowing all this right
however there's another side to this
coin number two water fast act nowadays
many people prefer to stick to
periodical water fasting as you've
probably already guessed there's one
rule you don't consume any food and
drink apart from water according to
specialists water fasting should last
for no more than a couple of days and a
consultation with a doctor beforehand is
obligatory some people follow this type
of fasting for spiritual or religious
reasons however others decide to take
this step because of its long list of
benefits among them are lower blood
pressure
improved insulin and Lipton sensitivity
lower cholesterol levels and weight loss
but the list of people who strictly
can't water fast is even longer you have
to remember that such a practice can be
potentially dangerous if you suffer from
lupus an eating disorder of any kind
cancer vascular disease alcoholism and
many other cases once again you must
visit your doctor before you go any
further with this option if you want to
water fast because of the weight loss
factor you have another option
intermittent fasting
this means eating nothing or just a few
calories for a certain period of time
and then eating as usual for another
period the best example to illustrate
this principle is the five to two diet
which involves eating regular meals for
five days of the week and then a quarter
of the daily calorie intake for the
final two days the studies show that
both approaches give equally strong
results so it's all up to you there's
still one more critical study connected
to water fasting in 1973 a study
conducted by the Department of Medicine
at Scotland's University of Dundee
followed the story of a 27 year old man
who fasted for 382 days straight the
results were fantastic he went from
weighing 456 pounds to 180 pounds of
course this was all done under the
supervision of doctors and with the
usage of vitamin supplements such as
yeast sodium and potassium but this was
not the most amazing thing specialist
continued to observe him for five years
after his fasting ended and his weight
never went above 200 pounds ever again
this is impressive right but where
should you start once you decide to
water fast number three how to perform a
water fast when your doctor has given
you the green light to proceed with
water fasting it's time to get down to
business
the first and most important thing is to
not jump into a long session of water
fasting right away your first experience
with it should last about two days
listen to your body carefully during
your first water fasting if the
experience is good and even comfortable
you can go on with longer water fasting
intervals usually people who pick a
seven day fasting period experience
tiredness and even dizziness at first
but on day four many claim that this
changes to a feeling of euphoria and
mental clarity which leads to fantastic
productivity as you plan your seven-day
water fasting try to pick a low stress
time in your life doing this during exam
season or when you're moving house isn't
the best time
the same applies to your work fasting
isn't all sunshine and roses unless of
course you're a florist it's hard and
requires a lot of willpower during this
process your work productivity can
seriously decrease starting the water
fast and gradually is also a great idea
you can skip breakfast the first week
and then skip breakfast and lunch the
second week you can allow yourself to
eat only half a portion of your dinner
the third week and then you'll finally
begin your water fasting the fourth week
your system will definitely appreciate
such a gentle approach in general men
should drink around thirteen cups of
water and women should aim for nine cups
daily during the fasting allow yourself
to sleep for as long as you need and
avoid working out as well when you're
done with your fasting you should break
it slowly easily digested foods like
soups juices pureed fruit white rice and
mashed potatoes are the best products
for your first two days on day 3 add
basic protein sources eggs chicken
broccoli cottage cheese and others a
couple of days later you can increase
the variety of your menu the best thing
is that you can easily keep your after
fasting weight permanently if you don't
go for a burger or pizza as your
victorious fasting is finally over meal
most surprisingly people often say that
their desire for junk and unhealthy food
decreases after water fasting and they
start to appreciate healthy food and
it's taste way more one more bad habit
goes out the window
but seriously water fasting isn't just a
fun experiment your doctor is the one
who should decide whether you can go for
it or not
if they agree and you feel like it can
be helpful good luck
just don't forget to come back to this
video and share your results and story
with us afterwards so what's the longest
you've gone without food tell us in the
comments below don't forget to give us a
like and click subscribe to stay on the
bright side of life